# PolyForm Noncommercial License 1.0.0
<https://polyformproject.org/licenses/noncommercial/1.0.0>

## Acceptance
In order to get any license under these terms, you must agree to them as
both strict obligations and conditions to all your licenses.

## Copyright License
The licensor grants you a copyright license for the software to do
everything you might do with the software that would otherwise infringe
the licensor's copyright in it for any permitted purpose. However, you
may only distribute the software according to **Distribution License**
and make changes or new works based on the software according to
**Changes and New Works License**.

## Distribution License
The licensor grants you an additional copyright license to distribute
copies of the software. Your license to distribute covers distributing
the software with changes and new works permitted by **Changes and New
Works License**.

## Notices
You must ensure that anyone who gets a copy of any part of the software
from you also gets a copy of these terms or the URL for them above, as
well as copies of any plain-text lines beginning with `Required Notice:`
that the licensor provided with the software. For example:

> Required Notice: Copyright Yoyodyne, Inc.

## Changes and New Works License
The licensor grants you an additional copyright license to make changes
and new works based on the software for any permitted purpose.

## Patent License
The licensor grants you a patent license for the software that covers
patent claims the licensor can license, or becomes able to license, that
you would infringe by using the software.

## Noncommercial Purposes
Any noncommercial purpose is a permitted purpose.

## Personal Uses
Personal use for research, experiment, and testing for the benefit of
public knowledge, personal study, private entertainment, hobby projects,
amateur pursuits, or religious observance, without any anticipated
commercial application, is use for a permitted purpose.

## Noncommercial Organizations
Use by any charitable organization, educational institution, public
research organization, public safety or health organization,
environmental protection organization, or government institution is use
for a permitted purpose regardless of the source of funding or
obligations resulting from the funding.

## Fair Use
You may have “fair use” rights for the software under the law. These
terms do not limit them.

## No Other Rights
These terms do not allow you to sublicense or transfer any of your
licenses to anyone else, or prevent the licensor from granting licenses
to anyone else. These terms do not imply any other licenses.

## Patent Defense
If you make any written claim that the software infringes or contributes
to infringement of any patent, your patent license for the software
granted under these terms ends immediately. If your company makes such a
claim, your patent license ends immediately for work on behalf of your
company.

## Violations
The first time you are notified in writing that you have violated any of
these terms, or done anything with the software not covered by your
licenses, your licenses can nonetheless continue if you come into full
compliance with these terms, and take practical steps to correct past
violations, within 32 days of receiving notice. Otherwise, all your
licenses end immediately.

## No Liability
**As far as the law allows, the software comes as-is, without any
warranty or condition, and the licensor will not be liable to you for
any damages arising out of these terms or the use or nature of the
software, under any kind of legal claim.**

## Definitions
The **licensor** is the individual or entity offering these terms, and
the **software** is the software the licensor makes available under
these terms. **You** refers to the individual or entity agreeing to
these terms. **Your company** is any legal entity, sole proprietorship,
or other kind of organization that you work for, plus all organizations
that have control over, are under the control of, or are under common
control with that organization. **Control** means ownership of
substantially all the assets of an entity, or the power to direct its
management and policies by vote, contract, or otherwise. Control can be
direct or indirect. **Your licenses** are all the licenses granted to
you for the software under these terms. **Use** means anything you do
with the software requiring one of your licenses.


Parallel LLC Commercial License v1.0
====================================

IMPORTANT—READ CAREFULLY.  This Commercial License (“Agreement”) is a
legal contract between Parallel LLC (“Licensor”) and the licensee
identified in the Order Form or invoice (“Licensee”).  By installing,
copying, accessing, or otherwise using the Software, Licensee agrees to
be bound by this Agreement.

1.  Definitions
    1.1 “Software” means the source code, object code, scripts, models,
         and all accompanying documentation found in this repository.
    1.2 “Authorized Users” means Licensee’s employees or contractors who
         are bound by written agreement to terms no less protective of
         Licensor’s rights than this Agreement.
    1.3 “Derivative Work” has the meaning set forth in 17 U.S.C. § 101.

2.  Grant of License
    2.1 **Production Use.**  Subject to payment of all applicable fees,
         Licensor grants Licensee a worldwide, non-exclusive,
         non-transferable license to (a) use, reproduce, and modify the
         Software, and (b) distribute the Software and Derivative Works
         as part of Licensee’s products or services, including
         software-as-a-service (SaaS).
    2.2 **Sublicensing.**  Licensee may sublicense distribution rights
         under Section 2.1(b) to its end customers solely in executable
         form and only pursuant to terms at least as protective of
         Licensor as this Agreement.
    2.3 **Reservation of Rights.**  All rights not expressly granted are
         reserved by Licensor.

3.  Fees & Payment
    3.1 License fees are specified in the Order Form and are due within
         thirty (30) days of invoice.  Late payments accrue interest at
         1.5 % per month or the maximum allowed by law, whichever is
         less.

4.  Support & Updates
    4.1 Licensor will provide commercially reasonable support during the
         term purchased.  Updates are provided at Licensor’s discretion
         and are governed by this Agreement unless accompanied by a new
         license.

5.  Confidentiality
    5.1 The Software and any non-public documentation are “Confidential
         Information.”  Licensee will not disclose Confidential
         Information except to Authorized Users and will protect it with
         at least the same care used for its own secrets.

6.  Intellectual-Property Protection
    6.1 Licensee shall not remove or alter any copyright, trademark, or
         proprietary notices.
    6.2 Licensee shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Licensor
         from any claim arising out of Licensee’s use or distribution of
         the Software.

7.  Warranty Disclaimer
    7.1 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS” WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
         EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE IMPLIED
         WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
         PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.

8.  Limitation of Liability
    8.1 LICENSOR WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL,
         INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR LOST PROFITS, ARISING
         OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
         POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  LICENSOR’S TOTAL LIABILITY SHALL
         NOT EXCEED THE FEES PAID BY LICENSEE IN THE TWELVE (12) MONTHS
         PRECEDING THE CLAIM.

9.  Term & Termination
    9.1 This Agreement begins on the Effective Date and continues for
         the term stated in the Order Form unless terminated earlier.
    9.2 Either party may terminate for material breach after thirty (30)
         days’ written notice if the breach is not cured.
    9.3 Upon termination, all rights granted to Licensee cease, and
         Licensee must destroy all copies of the Software in its
         possession.

10. Governing Law & Dispute Resolution
    10.1 This Agreement is governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of
          Virginia, U.S.A., without regard to conflict-of-law rules.
    10.2 Any dispute shall be resolved by binding arbitration in
          Fairfax County, Virginia, under the Commercial Arbitration
          Rules of the American Arbitration Association.

11. Entire Agreement; Amendments
    11.1 This Agreement, together with any Order Form, constitutes the
          complete and exclusive understanding between the parties and
          supersedes all prior proposals and agreements.  Any amendment
          must be in writing and signed by both parties.

© 2025 Parallel LLC.  All rights reserved.
